

{
    "title": "Gender: Household Preferences and Decision-making",
    "keywords": ["Unitary model of the household", "Dictatorial household", "Repeated interactions", "Income distribution important?", Bargaining power"],
    "summary": "Traditional models within developmental economics suppose a unitary model of the household whereby the distribution of income is unimportant. Testing empirically by  by identifying factors that only change bargaining power without affecting preferences.",
    "content": "# Gender: Household Preferences and Decision-making

So far assuming **Unitary model of H.H.**

What if we unroll this assumption:

Case I: **Dictatorial household**.

-> e.g. Child labour decision made by parents - whether it be exploitation or altruistic. Only following one member's (imputed)decisions(/imputed).

**Case II**: **Unanimity** Model
- Everyone in family maximizes the same function, same preferences.

Reality: somewhere in the middle

Repeated interaction likely lead to high efficiency of HH.

**Testing Unitary model**: two interdependent people case

$q_A$ & $q_B$ -> Consumption Vectors

$U^A(q_A,q_B)$ & $U^B(q_A,q_B)$

Income: $Y_A$ & $Y_B$

Under unitary model, w/o loss of generality

Decision:  max $U^A(q_A,q_B)$ 
s.t. $p(q_A + q_B) = Y_A + Y_B = Y$

(Key to our test: 
->  is distrib. of the inc. important or only aggregate income?)

If not unitary model, 
bargaining power of outside option matters!

Testing the model:
-> Key: identify impact of (factor that may change bargaining power but not preferences)

Alternative model: max joint utility but w. different weights.

$ max μ^AU^A(q_A,q_B) + μ^BU^B(q_A,q_B)
s.t. $p(q_A + q_B) = Y_A + Y_B = Y $"
},

